Agent-based Computational Economics is the subfield of economics in which outcomes are generated by simulating an economy where the agents make decisions at each timestep which determine the transition to the next timestep, and the outcomes are generated through simulating each step rather than calculating the equilibrium.

There are two main challenges to this: one is that the results are particularly sensitive to the parameters of the simulation. So far as I can tell this has little force - it may be that there are significant changes to the results when the number of people change in a way that does't seem to reflect reality but this seems to be a interesting kind of failure in model specification and finding simulations without this property should be an enlightening process. 
The more serious objection is that it doesn't allow for agents in the economy to give a rational response to their situation and that results obtained from a simulation in which agents systematically  (of course, there are certain types of systematic deviations from rationality, both at the individual and organizational level, but this should not be taken as a general purpose licence to 

The core question seems to be how to choose the decision rule by which the agents decide the option to take. The advantage of the format is there could potentially be a far greater range of options than would be feasible to consider, not just a vector of quantities but a whole possible set of options like moving jobs, having children, getting education - all these things can feasibly be added to the model without worrying about the complexity of solving for the equilibrium. The first example that I followed, from Tetsfasion 2008? has a very simple reinforcement learning algorithm which requires all of the options to be enumerated - the formula is shown below with the options indexed by n.

$$inser eq here$$

What can we gain from this model?
Try and get a measure of the overall level of production, can charge a tax, see what happens to total profit, number of people surviving. May well be that there can be importance insurance functions in this situation.

this is passable with the right parameters but the charge that they aren't able to react to changes seems fair, it easily locks into a single strategy but this is made worse by the inabiity to deal with a large action space, requiring exponential computation with each lever. I'm hoping that I can improve on this model using small DRL networks for each

This (unless extreme amount of data and training is provided) still fails the requirement that individuals are able to react spontaneously to new market conditions.

The challenges

Possible methods to add:

Crazy but interesting idea... we can ensure that expectations are rational in a first pass by running the sim forward with a variety of expectations, seeing which ones are validated and heading back to check whether they were correct.

Can I make automatic graphs of the kind that you'd expect from a mathematical (equilibrium?) approach? Supply and demand? Seems like it would take some work.
