At the foundations of macroecononomics we have two very important graphs. One shows the way in which the total saving in an economy depends on the real interest rate. The other shows the way in which the total investment depends on the real interest rate. When the interest rate goes up, saving becomes more worthwhile, and so the total savings goes up. At the same time, a higher interest rate means that fewer investment projects give an expected return that exceeds the interest that must be paid on the loan, and so investment falls. This naturally defines an equilibrium interest rate, and because this equilibrium point may change depending on variables like the overall health of the economy and the inflation rate, this defines a equilibrium given a range of other variables, which is central to the standard macroeconomic analysis.

Let us examine the graph that gives us the equilbrium. It is clear that the level of saving is well defined. As interest rates rise, saving should rise in a monotonic fashion- it we can double our money in a year saving would be far more attractive. At the other end of the spectrum, even if interest rates were extremely low, saving would still be useful as a hedge against changes in income, and if interest rates became negative, saving would still exist, though the ratio of banks to private safes would decrease.

On the other hand, the investment part of the curve isn't nearly as settled. For a given real rate of interest there is a particular total of projects which would be worthwhile when borrowing at the interest rate. It seems entirely possible that in order for there to be worthwhile projects totalling, say, 10% of GDP, there would have to be highly negative interest rates, at a level where nobody would rather lend at that rate than simply store cash. If benefits of a project extended infinitely far in the future and the time discounting used was the rate of interest then there would be a significant change at zero but given the rate of capital destruction?? at something like 10% combined with catastrophic risk and time preference elements of discounting, there doesn't seem to be any good reason to believe that the investment market should naturally clear all of the saving. 

This is relevant because it is often opined that given te prevailing low interest rates available to governments at the moment, it would be a highly opportune time to commit to major infrastructure spending. This is fair enough but what I hadn't realised is how easy it is for an increase in the cost of significant public works to completely destroy the case for infrastructure spending even with hyper-low interest rates. It affirms the importance of efficient procurement as fundamental to the level of development that a country can achieve.
Could this explain the low interest rate malaise that much of the West seems to be in?
 
coming back to this way later, i think this was about the fact that there doesn't seem to be any serious need for the rate of return on the marginal dollar of saving (going into non-rent goods ie no housing) should look anything like the +5% that we've come to expect.

I am very curious to see if there have been times in which simply by the cost/benefit ratio of the opportunities available the rela interest rate has been outside of the normal 20th century range.

